The Counter Disinformation Network (CDN) Bible
Your complete guide to the CDN

Version: 2.0
Date of publication: 01/02/2025


Editor:
Saman Nazari, Alliance4Europe. 

Contributors*:
Stephen Campbell⁩, DISARM Foundation - Template
Carl Miller, CASM Technologies - Action Tracker
Pavlo Kryvenko, Debunk.org - Template, Narrative framework
Matteo Pugliese, Debunk.org - Template, Narrative framework
Viktoras Dauksas, Debunk.org Template, Narrative framework
Sophie Sacilotto, Debunk.org, Template. 

This work is licensed under CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 by Saman Nazari and Alliane4Europe. 

Welcome to the Counter Disinformation Network! 

This document aims to give you an overview of the purpose of the collaboration, its different functions, and how you can use its resources. 

Have any questions or feedback? Feel free to reach out to Saman “Sam” Nazari, the coordinator of the CDN at: Saman.nazari@alliance4Europe.eu or directly in the Slack Workspace. 

Sam is always happy to support and help you with whatever he can regarding the CDN. He happily promotes your initiatives to other members and relevant external parties, helps you set up new projects or collaborations, or organises roundtables to discuss a topic that interests you. 

Feel free to propose changes and develop your own version of this document for your own network. With that said, you need to clearly quote this document as the source. 

This document will cover: 

1. This introduction

2. What is the CDN?

3. Terms of engagement and rules

4. Slack Structure 

5. Slack Crisis Response Workflow

6. One-page template

7. Alerting System
 
Access these different sections through the document tab, which should appear to your left.

Visible attribution of the project needs to be ensured if the content of this document or the CDN is shared. 

Changes to the document or templates of the CDN need to be approved by the editor. 


Any duplication of the CDN methodology outlined in this document and use through the CDN  Slack structure is not permitted without prior approval from the editor. 
