Introduction to the Counter Disinformation Network


The Counter Disinformation Network (CDN) is a collaborative platform that gathers more than 300 information manipulation-countering practitioners from civil society-, media-, and fact-checking organisations as well as universities. The network works to defend democracy and information integrity using common approaches and methods. It enables coordinated action on major events and crises, supports community initiatives and distributes research findings.

The CDN has three main pillars: 

A Slack Workspace for project coordination and crisis response. 
Knowledge Valorisation
Knowledge Sharing


1. Slack Workspace - Coordination, Crisis Response, and Major Event Monitoring
The CDN Slack workspace gathers the participants of the network in a common workspace. Participants can use the Slack workspace to create collaborative projects, coordinate existing projects they are working on with partners, or speak with other practitioners working on similar topics or regions. 

You do not have to ask for permission to use the workspace for your projects, but we do appreciate it if you tell the coordinator. If you want to launch a collaborative project within the CDN, you can also approach the coordinator to get help in setting it up and amplifying it to other members of the network. 

The network also allows other networks to join and use the Slack workspace, or for members to create sub-networks within the network, who, for example, work on specific countries, regions or thematic focuses. Feel free to reach out if you need help setting this up. 

During major events such as elections or crises, the CDN Slack has a workflow that allows participants to quickly collaborate and work on monitoring and response. 

The workflow can be activated by any member and is modular, allowing participants to chip in wherever it makes sense for them. 

This workflow will be described in more detail later.



2. Knowledge Valorisation - Distributing and Operationalising Knowledge.

The community of practitioners working on influence operations and information manipulation countering are producing a vast amount of reports, cases, methodologies, and tools. These are not always reaching the people who need them.

Therefore, we have been working to develop a mailing list of practitioners and responders to whom we can distribute the output of the network’s members. Responders range from government officials, regulators, policymakers, journalists, communicators, and civil society organisations working on the ground. 

In the long term, we aim to be able to help organisations have their methodologies and tools adopted into standardised workflows and toolkits, making sure that they live on. 


3. Knowledge Sharing - A Network of Experts

The CDN has a wide range of members from different countries and regions, working on different themes. 

With this in mind, we have people with a wide range of knowledge that we can all benefit from.  We want to organise periodically roundtables to discuss topics that interest participants. 

We encourage participants to propose roundtables and use the CDN as a platform to organise their own. 

The network also connects policymakers and responders with practitioners, working to ensure that expert voices are heard. 
