Terms of Engagement and Rules


The CDN is governed by some simple rules outlined in the MoU that participating organisations signed and the rules outlined in this document. These rules are meant to give us all a baseline from which we can relate to each other. 


Be respectful to others - avoid personal attacks and keep things friendly. We do not accept any type of harassment from anyone. 

Working language: English. Feel free to communicate in other languages in private or dedicated chats, but to keep it inclusive, we ask you to please communicate in English in public channels.

Be transparent about your identity and your affiliations. Introduce yourself in #1-2-introduction. Please contact Sam if you wish to remain Anonymous due to security or other reasons.

Respect the wishes of others - don't share their findings or discussions without the affected participants' consent. Respect the TLP (described below). 

Credit the people who contributed to your work. Participants may wish not to get credited. We recommend that you use these labels: Editor (project leads, editing and writing the text), authors (people who wrote part of the text), and contributors (participants only providing data). 

Credit the CDN when you publish something that the CDN contributed to making possible. If you used the CDN to coordinate a project or were introduced to project partners via the CDN, mention the CDN in your publication.

Warn others when you link to sensitive or potentially harmful content. We are all at times working on explicit and potentially harmful content. Let’s be mindful of each other's well-being and add disclaimers to content that can be psychologically damaging. 

De-fang links by putting brackets between the domain name and the link path (e.g. example[.]com) or by sharing archived versions of them.




Confidentiality

Each Participant shall maintain project-related Confidential Information strictly confidential and agrees that it will take the same steps to protect the confidential information securely. Confidentiality obligations survive the participant leaving the CDN.  

The project uses the Traffic Light Protocol (TLP) for information sharing. Participants are to designate information they share based on these categories. All participants commit to complying with the designations given to the material shared and may be liable for damages in case of data breach.

The TLP Categories are defined as:
a. TLP:RED = For the eyes and ears of individual recipients only, no further disclosure. Sources may use TLP:RED when information cannot be effectively acted upon without significant risk to the privacy, reputation, or operations of the organisations involved. Recipients may therefore not share TLP:RED information with anyone else. In the context of a meeting, for example, TLP:RED information is limited to those present at the meeting.

b. TLP:AMBER = Limited disclosure, recipients can only spread this on a need-to-know basis within their organisation and its clients. Note that TLP:AMBER+STRICT restricts sharing to the organisation only. Sources may use TLP:AMBER when information requires support to be effectively acted upon, yet carries a risk to privacy, reputation, or operations if shared outside of the organisations involved. Recipients may share TLP:AMBER information with members of their own organisation and its clients, but only on a need-to-know basis to protect their organisation and its clients and prevent further harm. Note: if the source wants to restrict sharing to the organisation only, they must specify TLP:AMBER+STRICT.

c. TLP:GREEN = Limited disclosure, recipients can spread this within their community. Sources may use TLP:GREEN when information is useful to increase awareness within their wider community. Recipients may share TLP:GREEN information with peers and partner organisations within their community, but not via publicly accessible channels. TLP:GREEN information may not be shared outside of the community.
Note: when “community” is not defined, assume the influence operations-countering community,
including governments, NGOs, researchers, universities, and the platforms. Indicate clearly if you do not want to include a specific group.

d. TLP:CLEAR = Recipients can spread this to the world, there is no limit on disclosure. Sources may use TLP:CLEAR when information carries minimal or no foreseeable risk of misuse, in accordance with applicable rules and procedures for public release. Subject to standard copyright rules, TLP:CLEAR information may be shared without restriction.

